Cambodia does not have to repeat the same mistakes the world has already made. We don't have to value economic growth over the well-being of our ecosystem and environment or value quick short-term financial gain over a long-term sustainable future for our children. In contrast, we can choose to do what is right. That leads us to one of our greatest challenges, how are we going to change the course of our country's agricultural development strategy and farmers' agricultural practice from exclusively pursuing the modern industrial agriculture model that degrades our soil, depletes our water, decreases our biodiversity, destroys our ecosystem, and contributes heavily to climate change toward more sustainable and regenerative agriculture?

Cambodia relies heavily on agriculture. The majority of our farmers are small-scale farmers meaning access to farmland hasn't been completely monopolized by any big corporation yet. Moreover, we still have a lot of arable lands which means our soil isn't completely degraded. Therefore, it is not too late for us to choose to do the right thing. We need to adopt sustainable agriculture to sustainably increase production and income, adapt and build resilience to the impact of climate change, and wherever possible reduce greenhouse gases. Otherwise, we will suffer the most because small-scale farmers are shown to be the most vulnerable. This is what our project will focus on. Dassatek, meaning "to awaken" in Khmer, is created to inspire and assist Cambodian youths and farmers in adopting sustainable agriculture to adapt to climate change through our market gardening farm Bootcamp.

Market gardening doesn't just offer a chance for the next generation of youths and existing farmers to make a good living, but also to do meaningful work and live a fulfilling life. It is an organic vegetable farm business that allows growers to maximize crop yields from a minimum area of land while seeking to adapt and mitigate climate change. For example, first, minimum tillage, permanent raised bed, cover crop, mulching, drip irrigation, and rainwater harvesting are used to help farmers mitigate flash floods, prevent soil erosion, and conserve water. Second, market gardener utilizes natural fertilizer—cow or poultry manure, microbe- and nutrient-rich compost, green manure, and cover crops to continuously build soil fertility. Third, crop diversification, inter-cropping, plant integration, and crop rotation are practiced as measures for risk, pest, and disease management. Fourth, market gardening capitalizes on small-scale, local organic vegetable production, and direct selling using appropriate technology which reduces greenhouse gas emission and results in minimum start-up and production cost. These principles and practices aren't completely new to Cambodia. They have been adopted by CE SAIN and implemented with Cambodian farmers.

Our farmers learn best by hearing another farmer's successful story, observing what they do, and actually doing it themselves. Having noticed that, Dassatek chose to do farm Bootcamp which is designed to be a very project-based and hands-on apprenticeship-like program for our participants—both passionate youths and farmers. Combining the young generation's creativity and open-mindedness with our farmer's priceless experiences, our Bootcamp will be able to creatively and innovatively solve problems and successfully adopt market gardening into our country. Our project idea consists of two phases.

The first phase, our Bootcamp, will run from March to December 2022 with an objective to reach 10,000 people to raise their awareness about climate change's impact on food security and to inspire the 25 participants to be our first change agents and early adopters. To begin with, we will conduct our opening workshop and social media campaigns to recruit 25 participants to form 5 teams for our one-month training where they will learn about sustainable agriculture, climate change, and how to run a market gardening. Each team will create a business plan and farm design before they move on to start growing vegetables and running their market gardens for the next six months on our partner's 1.67 acres of land in CE SAIN's agricultural technology park at the Royal University of Agriculture in Phnom Penh. This implementation stage is very important for them to learn by doing and solving real problems together. Dassatek and our partners will be supporting them closely from behind. In addition, our media team will record each team’s activities and journey to do live weekly reports for our audiences. At the end of phase one, the five market gardens will be evaluated in our closing workshop.

Our objective for the second phase is to assist farmers from 5 agricultural cooperatives whom we work with through our partner, Cambodia Partnership for Sustainable Agriculture, in replicating market gardening in their communities. Dassatek will find the market in Phnom Penh and build a decentralized platform for them to sell their produces directly to households and organic restaurants. We don't want to be their middle man because we want to help them to be able to run their farm business by themselves. Instead, we can provide them services such as technical support on how to run a market gardening, regular monitoring and consulting through our youth agents, vegetable delivery, and marketing or accounting assistance.  Another way we can work with them is to supply them resources such as tools and equipment—specifically required to run a market gardening farm—composts, vegetable seeds, natural fertilizer, and so on. The goal is to assist and empower each agriculture cooperative to be able to provide all these products and services to its members by itself.

In conclusion, by proving to youths and farmers that market gardening works in the context of our country through our successful farm Bootcamp, we hope that our story will inspire more farmers to adopt sustainable agriculture models and attract more youths to get into agriculture. Dassatek believes that we can learn from the mistakes of one another and use our creativity to adapt, localize, and innovate our food system to sustainably increase production and income, adapt and build resilience to the impact of climate change, and wherever possible reduce greenhouse gases. Together we awaken "Dassatek" each other throughout Cambodia and beyond to farm in harmony with nature.