Tell me if you can spot all these in my essay:
- What is the main problem?
- What is it that I am doing?
- Why is what I am doing important?
- Why do I care?
- What is my proposed solution?
- How do I plan to act on it?
- What do I anticipate as the outcome?


Cambodian farmers learn best by hearing another farmer's successful story, observing what they do, and actually doing it themselves. They might not learn effectively and efficiently from passive training workshop, slide presentation, classroom-style teaching, or conventional capacity building program which have been conducted or given by different NGOs and private or governmental sectors. That's because our farmers are mostly from older generations with limited formal education. Having noticed that, Dassatek chose to do farm bootcamp instead. We design our bootcamp to be very project-based and emphasize on hands-on apprenticeship-like program for our participants which will consist of both passionate youths and farmers. Combining young generation's creativity and open-mindedness with our farmer's priceless experiences, our bootcamp will be able to innovatively solve problems and to successfully adopt market gardening or any other sustainable agriculture models into our country. 

Our objective for the second phase is to assist farmers in replicating market gardening in our 5 partner agricultural cooperatives which we have access to work with through our other partner and mentor, Cambodia Partnership for Sustainable Agriculture. In this phase, Dassatek will find the market in Phnom Penh for farmers's produces and build a decentralized platform using existing social media or building a website and mobile application, where farmers can sell their produces directly to households and organic restaurants. We don't want to be their middle man because we don't want them to depend on us forever. 

Instead, we want to help them to be able to run their farm business by themselves. To do that, we can start by providing them services such as technical support on how to run a market gardening, regular monitoring and consulting through our youth agents, vegetable delivery, and marketing or accounting assistance. They can stop using any of our service whenever they think they're ready to handle it themselves. Another way we can work with them is to supply them resources such as tools and equipment—specifically required to run a market gardening farm— composts, vegetable seeds, natural fertilizer, and so on. The goal is to assist and empower each agriculture cooperative to be able to provide all these products and services to its members by itself. That leaves Dassatek to do only one job, to continue assisting farmers in replicating the system in all agricultural cooperatives throughout Cambodia. 

Market gardening follows a biologically intensive approach which allows vegetable growers to maximize crop yields from a minimum area of land, while seeking to preserve or even improve the quality of the soil. It shares many common principles and practices with Climate-Smart Agriculture developed by Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. For example, first, minimum tillage, permanent raised bed, cover crop, mulching, drip irrigation, and rain water harvesting are used to o help farmers mitigate flash flood, prevent soil erosion, and conserve water. Second, market gardener utilizes natural fertilizer—cow or poultry manure, microbe- and nutrient-rich compost, green manure, and cover crops to continuously maintain and build soil fertility. Third, crop diversification, inter-cropping, plant integration, and crop rotation are practiced as measures for risk, pest, and disease management. Fourth, market gardening capitalizes on small-scale and local organic vegetable production using appropriate technology which reduces greenhouse gas emission and results in minimum start-up and production cost. These principles and practices aren't completely new to Cambodia. They have been experimented and piloted with Cambodian farmers by CE SAIN. With all these benefits, market gardening doesn't just offer a chance for next generation of youths and existing farmers to make a good living, but also to do a meaningful work and live a fulfilling life. 