# Sample
#### Title

**I am grateful for:**

**Result or progress I am proud of:**

**Reflection or Revelation:**


# 23/11/21
#### NVC Reflection - Not a pleasure meeting with Anthea
- Observation
	- I don't know man. I don't know what really triggered me to raise up my guard when talking to her. After I finished explaining to her about my idea related to market gardening and YSEALI proposal. She then immediately responded, "On my defense...hydroponic...hi-tech farming..." These are the only words I actually remember now that I think back. I didn't know what her point was or what she was trying to say. But from that point on, I think I raised up my guard and I wasn't really fully listen to her anymore. After I heard these words, I think I cut her and said something like "Land isn't a question here in Cambodia." She immediately responded to me, "It's not about the land. It is about the climate change." This got me feel like "She's implying that I am not thinking about climate change which I think I have been trying to fight for." That also added up to my to make me raise the guard higher. 
	- She went on to talk about how high-tech agriculture could help farmers to monitor the temperature, the moisture, the nutrition and everything which help with adapting to climate change. Then I think I was trying to tell her that I am not leaning toward high-tech agriculture  or traditional ecological farming, but I try to find the balance by using appropriate technology to assist farmers in practicing ecological farming. I remember that she then kept on saying something that I alone interpreted as "She was debating with me that farming using huge area of land is not going to work because there's this climate change thing which is very pressing." I remembered I just cut her and said, "I leave high-tech farming to the developed countries." Maybe this also offended her too. I don't know. 
	- She talked about how she was trying to get as many collaboration as she could. She said if I remember correctly, "Don't be afraid to bombard people's emails. Ask them a lot of questions."
	- She raised up the fact that her project proposal was not what it originally was in the first place when she submitted it because she was listening to many different people. I don't know what she was trying to tell me here too. I only know that it triggered me to think that she was trying to tell me that my project is not sound and that I should listen to more people first. Thus, this also raised my guard even more. 
	- At one point she even asked "Are going to collaborate with anyone?" I said, "Yes. I think CPSA is going to support me." Then she gave a reaction, "You think...?" I don't know really what to take from this reaction, but at that moment I was kind of offended and raise my guard and just respoinding quickly to her reaction that I did talk to the director of CPSA about my idea and he said he is going to support, I talked to Melanie from Impact Hub, and CE SAIN I will approach them to help with training." 
	- At one point, when she was explaining whom she has beening collaborating with, she was trying to recall a name of a ministry in Battambang which works on agriculture. She could not recall the full name, so she said something like "Ministry of blah blah". I looked at her face and heard "the Ministry of blah blah". Then I interpreted as "She hate it the ministry and kind of was giving a disrespectful attitude toward that ministry."
	-  She even blamed the US for destroying the Ozone at US-Canadian border. She said, "I never want to live in Canada. It is a very boring country." She praised Rawanda and said she wanted to move to Africa anyway. 
	- Before we finished, I was asking her about her background in nutrition. The she talked about how people don't value nutritionist but doctors. I thought that she was trying to say that actually people can focus on the nutrition and not have to rely on the doctors. I then talked about my mother's example. I said, "On that I have a real example." Then I explained what my mother has been doing with her diet, eliminating rice and sugary food. I used the term "reducing carbohydrate intake". She reacted to eat by saying, "I hate when people say reducing carbohydrate. Then she went on to explaining that carbohydrate is in everything even vegetable." I don't know what she was really trying to communicate to me here. But I interpreted it as "She was telling me that I am wrong that I don't actually know what I am saying." Then I just said to her, "You don't to hate when people say reducing carbohydrate. Just think of them as ignorant. That they just don't know it." She then said something to explain that she doesn't hate them or think they're ignorant. She said, "I just...when educated people said it." I did ask her "Then you what? You're irritated?" I don't remember her response.  I also asked "how do you know if someone is educated." She said, "Those who go to school and got master and pHd". Then I stopped asking there because ok then I am now who she's referring to because I am not educated (by her definition go to school and have pHd).
	- She also said, "I don't understand why people refine brown rice in white rice and like to eat just white rice. Refining add more process and causes more money." For this, I interpreted it as "She's showing her frustration or complaining."

- Feeling
	- With all these, I just felt like I was not respected (maybe as citizen of this country). I was not being understood. I was not being listened to with an open heart. 
- Need
- Request
- Overall, I don't why she was being like this with me. Is it her nature? Did she just have a bad day? Did her past experience just frustrated her? I don't know what was going through her. I just felt that "Common, give me some respect even if my level of knowledge isn't as high as you or even I don't many things. Maybe give some respect as a person and listen to me with a more open heart. Don't have to be in a debate mode all the time. Try to understand where I come from first." 
- My real impression toward her, but this is just my own interpretation. It doesn't mean she is like what I interpret her to be. She seems to be arrogant, always questioning why, judging. She seems to get frustrated when someone say something without correct understanding, when someone doesn't know something she knows.  I actually sensed that strange force with her and noticed her eyes when she was touring me and Tey at Phar. She walked in front of us, but it seems like her eyes always checking back at us. I felt like she felt not safe or something. I don't know. 
- I said this riding from the meeting back home. "Common give me some respect if not for my limited knowledge but for being the ម្ចាស់ផ្ទះ/ប្រទេស. Listen to me and try to understand me a bit more first. Don't give me the impression that I don't know as much as you. Don't give the impression that only you know how to fix/correct/improve/change Cambodia. Look I have been here for 25 years and you just came here for how long? 3 months. Give me some respect. I am not close-minded and accepting feedback or criticism, but do it a nice constructing way." 
- When we parted, she wanted to say something like "See you next..." Then pause, I didn't say anything back, because I didn't feel a need to say some back just to be nice. Then she finished off with ok "see you whenever we meet." I just said bye and bye and left. 
- If it was 5 years ago, in this kind of situation, I would be very scared and shaking. But I did ok. I stood my ground. 