##### Please explain shortly why you are applying for a scholarship, and why you need financial aid (1000 characters limit)

I belong to a Cambodian middle class family whose parents grew up through Khmer Rouge, a genocide that slaughtered one third of Cambodian population consisting of mainly intellectuals. Rising from the ashes of the genocide, my parents never graduate from university. Thus, as the only child in the family, I would be the first generation of the family to have a higher education. What is even more spacial is that it is not just any higher education, but American world-class accredited education. It's our dream. Currently, there are just me and my single mother in our family as my father passed away in 2018. My mother is a stay-at-home mother who can't work to support our family anymore due to her old age and chronic illness. Therefore, I can't rely on my family to pay for my education. 

I am seeking for financial aid because I am forced to take on my entrepreneurship endeavor earlier than I planned. In Cambodia, Covid-19 pandemic got worth in the middle of last year resulting in many businesses going bankrupt or being at the edge of going bankrupt. Unfortunately, I happened to work for one of them, so I became unemployed in July 2021. I don't ever want to play the victim; therefore, I looked for solution. I decided to start working on my social business idea. I started putting up a business proposal and applied to a program called The Young Southeast Asian Leaders Initiative (YSEALI) Seeds for the Future. However, the result will be announced in March 2022. As for now, I can't really do anything much, but to use my remaining saving to support myself and remaining time to work on improving my social business idea and proposal to apply for other sources of funding. Even if I got the fund to get started, it is going to take a couple years for the business to really take shape and sustain itself. Hence, the first one to three years is going to put me to test intellectually and financially.  

When I applied to enroll at the University of the People back in June this year, I could still pay for the assessment fees of my first ever course, English Composition 1, using my own salary because I was still employed. I always want to take responsible for my own education and leave the financial aid opportunity for other people, who were in greater need for it than I do. Ironically, I am now one of those people who needs financial assistance. Despite my current unemployment, I still want to contribute in whatever way I can in my education. That's why I am not asking for a full scholarship, but a partial one which will definitely help me tremendously. 


##### Please provide a personal statement outlining any additional information that you would like the Scholarship Committee to consider when evaluating your application. You may include information such as: any achievements, volunteer work, community service, hardships you have overcome, and any other special circumstances (1000 characters limit)

